---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: New Semester But What is new?
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-01-23
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - ICS 314 Responses
---

I was always told to be aware of both ICS 311 and ICS 314, and now actually taking the two courses I see why people warned me about it. <br />
<p> After a week of ICS 314, I learned that I have yet to make a better study schedule and that having fun has low precedence this semester. While Javascript is not the first computer programing language that I have learned, it is a little foreign compared to the ones I learned previously. Unlike Java or C, one of the things that makes Javascript different is that it does not require a parameter declaration for each of its variables. Javascript itself was similar to Python and learning was not the difficult part, but the number of exercises was challenging. This makes me realize that if I am struggling in the early part of the semester, I need to redo my schedule for the Spring 2020 semester. </p>
<p> Furthermore, with this course not having a consistent pattern with its workdays, it does make taking this course and learning Javascript quite stressful. For instance, ICS 311 Algorithms course has a strict seven day schedule that everything operates in an organized manner. In ICS 314, while we do have a schedule, there is no pattern to the schedule itself. For example, there are no patterns to the due dates with the assignments. While the easiest solution to this problem would just create a calendar, this does not easily solve the problem for a person with stress and anxiety problems. </p>
<p> Despite having negative thoughts towards the class in the beginning, I still think this course is beneficial. To begin with I am glad I am actually learning Javascript through a class. Most of the time when I go through job listing websites, most tech companies require a knowledge of Javascript. While I was able to somewhat teach myself Javascript through readings and videos, actually taking the course boosted my confidence in me. <br/> 
While most people say, "all work is no fun," I personally feel that statement does not apply to the current era. In the real world, we are given tasks with various due dates. Sometimes, we are given tasks that are required to be done at the last minute. Most of the times we have to prioritize work with everything that seems fun. 
Therefore, I have no regrets so far taking this course. 
