---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Software Ethics"
date: 2020-04-23
labels:
  - Software Engineering 
  - Ethics 
---
### Ethics in Software Engineering 

Ethics, to begin with, does not change with its environment as it always has the same meaning: respect and modesty. However, while the definition of ethics does not change, I think the usage will vary. For example, in the world of Software Engineering modesty is used to keep professionalism. As the behind the scenes worker, we must strive to deliver high quality to the best of our abilities. Then if we make mistakes, we should not make excuses for it and rather apologize for it and offer how to cover up for it. And if there are standards that we have to follow then just follow it without questions. Furthermore, technology is a field that constantly changes. With that as a reason, we must have a flexible mind to the upcoming changes. 

### Social Network Profile Ethics 

One of the growing usages of online tools is social media networks. If you are unfamiliar with it is an online tool where families, friends, and etc. can stay connected in a distance. Examples of these networks include Twitter, Instagram, MySpace, and probably the most popular Facebook. However, when using this social media network how far is our information protected and are proper ethics practiced when handling this personal information. 

Facebook, founded in 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg, is one of the popular social networks with questions behind its ethics. According to one of ACM’s ethical standards, one must report possible mistakes or errors as soon as possible. However, Facebook instead took a year to report its mistakes. And instead of apologizing immediately, they took their time to think about what to say and what to do to please others. It is true that pleasing others is important, but many people will be more pleased with immediate notification as that is more ethical. 

Furthermore, with 2020 being the election year and the census year we are bound to see many political ads. However, is ethics being kept if Facebook sides with one side of the battle? Additionally, ethics is an idea to practice rules and not bending it for anyone. But with Facebook not taking down accounts with questionable statements in its account I do not think it is ethics. Then taking bribes to increase their chance of winning is unethical because according to ACM Ethics is being fair and not discriminate. By taking bribes and increasing ads because of that does not sound fair. Thus, Facebook lacks basic ethics, and people have the right to question it. 


### Ethics Onward 

Despite the progress we make with technology, the complication behind ethics will become more complicated. I personally believe people now are more twisted and corrupted than those from the early 1900s. For instance, I have recently read an article with a man in his 60’s saying that the “Aloha Spirit”, or kindness is lacking compared to when he was young. With this, I am not surprised that the practice of ethics has been lacking. When practicing ethics I think the important thing is discipline. If there are rules to follow, we follow them accordingly. Be respectful and mindful of others. Overall, we must think of others instead of ourselves by questioning how we would feel being treated by how we treat others. There we can practice good ethics with others. 

