---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: What is New This Semester?
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-01-23
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - ICS 314 Responses
---

> “ICS 314 will be a fun course they said. You will not regret taking it they said.”

When I was making my plans for this semester, I had my doubts. I was warned about a semester with both ICS 311: Algorithms and ICS 314: Software Engineering. My peers warned me that it is going to be a dangerous semester. Now I understand why so many of my peers warned me about. After a week of this semester, it made me realize that fun has a low precedence this semester, and that I have to prioritize my classes and work over everything. 

### Initial thoughts  ###

After a week trying out JavaScript, the initial thought I had was that this is not like any other language I learned before. The first two programming languages I learned was C and Java. These two languages while having their differences, they had more things in common compared to JavaScript. 

To begin with, the variable declarations are different. For example, C and Java has declaration for digits such as integers, float, or doubles. JavaScript, on the other hand the variable declaration are not always necessary. However, the for loop structure and if - else statements are not different from the other languages, but since it is a foreign language, there is a brain barrier that makes learning difficult. Furthermore, there were many online lessons that made the task of learning JavaScript a tedious task. 

Despite the negative thoughts, there are still some positive outcomes that came from learning Javascript ICS 314. Everytime I look through a job ad that deals with programming, the most common requirement is the knowledge of Javascript. Currently, my main priority in life is not personal happiness but rather being personal success. And if the lack of knowledge is something that blocks it, then that is something that I need to change. Therefore, I have no regrets about taking ICS 314. 

### Overall thoughts  ###

As mentioned previously, I said that fun has low precedence this semester. Personally, I believe that the concept of “you need to have fun or life is boring” is outdated. While I believe that most people are happy when they are having fun, being happy is not good enough as it does not pay the taxes nor does it look good on a resume. According to the book about work interviews written by Mr. Daigo, it states that most companies associate having fun with the person being lazy like a sloth.If that is true, then I am willing to sacrifice some fun time for work to look good in the inside.   

Additionally, we live in an era where robots such as AI’s are going to take over human jobs that survival in terms of the work field is going to be difficult. Therefore, I have to prioritize school and work over everything, so I do not get replaced by one. With ICS 314 dealing with JavaScript homework that is due often including weekends, I think it will help me in different ways. Such as getting used to work 7 days a week, balancing two jobs within a given period, and getting priorities straight. 

