---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Looks and Experience is Everything
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-01-23
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - ICS 314 Responses
---

> “We live in a society filled with judgemental people. When you lack something, you get judged for that.”

Before taking this course, I did not have any real knowledge of software engineering. The basic idea of software engineering I know is that it is the process of analyzing what the user requirements then designing and testing a software application that fits those requirements. While I knew by reading different articles that were available online. The articles that I usually read mainly talked about the intersections of data science and software engineering. Additionally, in that same article, I also read that software engineering has strong ties with other disciplines such as economics, computer science, and management science.

### The ability to adapt to modern requirements ###

One of the difficult things that I read about software engineering is the ability to adapt to modern standards. In my opinion, to say anything computer or programming related is a growing field is not an understatement. The reason being is that the requirements that the user wants constantly changes. By taking this class, I would like to gain the skills to understand what others want. My understanding of life is that you are not important. However, while I am not important, other people are more important in terms of a professional perspective. For instance, if someone asks you to do a certain task, and then you have to do it since we are getting paid. Additionally, I would like to gain the ability to truly comprehend and ask questions without any fear. For example, I can be given be a certain direction, and while I understand it in one way that was not meant. To prevent that confusion, the solution is to ask in detail. However, asking is hard as people tend to make a judging look for asking a question that results in the development of low self-esteem. Therefore, I want to be able to ask questions, so I can completely understand the requirements of certain projects.
 
### The skills of Javascript ###

The additional reason, I personally looked forward to this course Javascript. During the previous summer, when I was looking for jobs, most of the requirements were “knowledge of Javascript”. Therefore, during the summer I was self-teaching myself Javascript, but self-teaching alone feels not enough. There is so much a person can do by reading and watching Youtube videos. By taking this course, I hope I can improve my knowledge and skills in Javascript. Additionally, I personally feel like there is a certain expectation of knowledge and skills. Since I know I lack those skills that are why I want to take this course and become better.

### The overall personal goal ### 

Overall, I would like to become more professional in terms of appearance and behavior. I want to be more acceptable in terms of business because we are judged by how we act. And if taking the course can help me to grow then I am ready for what this course has to offer.  
