---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: To ask intelligently or not
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-01-30
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - ICS 314 Responses
---

### We learn by asking questions. But the way we ask our question changes the outcomes. ###

> “Always ask why and that is how you learn.”

When we were young, such as the age of 3 , I bet most of us asked other adults why often.
 The reason being is as young children, most of us lacked the vocabulary skills to ask concise and clear questions, so therefore, we asked “why,'' “what”, and “how”. However, as we grow up, we gain the necessary vocabulary skills to ask more concise and clear questions. 
 But, just because we have more vocabulary skills, does that guarantee intelligent questions? 

However, before asking our questions, regardless if it is smart or not, the first thing one must do is to check if the question is being asked in the appropriate environment. For example, you cannot ask a English Major a question regarding to vector analysis. You might get a response, but not an answer to your question. Additionally, the accurate environment usually has people with high credibility of that certain subject. Therefore, asking an Math question to a person who specializes in Math seems more effective than asking a English Professor. 
After checking if the environment is appropriate, we must use the appropriate words to ask that question in a smart way. 
For instance, here are some of the following questions that fall into the not so smart questions. 
### <a href = "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59961664/child-row-above-parent-row-on-datatableQuestion"> Question </a> Child row above parent row on datatable ###

To me, this is an unclear question because I do not know why the user is asking about. Even if I know the person looking at it understood the terminology used here, there is no precision. A responder has to think and comprehend the question and it might not be what the asker wants, but since it lacks precision, who is to blame? It is not the responder, but the person who originally lacked precision.  

So what is an example of a smart question. Typically, a question with that type includes the right volume of information. For example, we might have a lot to ask because we are curious. However, there is a max capacity in which a person can comprehend to respond with an accurate answer. Additionally, one must explain their individual goal and not the steps. Here is a question that I find that is smart one. 

### <a href = "https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11227809/why-is-processing-a-sorted-array-faster-than-processing-an-unsorted-array"> Question </a> Why is processing a sorted array faster than processing an unsorted array? ###


Compared to the previous question, it begins with the word “Why”. Just with this simple word, the person who attempts to respond can guess the type of the question. Furthermore, it is clear and concise, so any responder can answer without any doubts. However, the response all depends on the type of person who is writing out the answer. It happened to be the person was nice and detailed. Maybe, since the person asked a smart question originally, it attracted a kind person who was able to do a great response. 

Asking is always fine, but we always have to check whether the question is smart and appropriate. 





