---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Final Project Idea"
date: 2020-03-31
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Meteor
---

## STEM Navigator ##  

### Overview ###
*The Problem*: The University of Hawaii at Manoa (UH Manoa for short) offers multiple different fields of STEM, however, some are either unsure or have a major that they are interested in. As a result, many students might change their majors back and forth, therefore, extending their time at school.
*The Solution*: STEM Navigator is an application for students to view what each STEM major offers along with the current or graduate student comment/suggestion for those that are coming into the major.
### Approach ###
STEM Navigator is available for a public “view only” mode for non-logged in users. To use Stem Navigator, a UH Manoa student must log in and set up their profile. Within each profile, a student can list their current major or their major of interest. Each profile will require a headshot so they can be visually identified.
Once the profile is set up, the STEM Navigator can provide which STEM major is recommended if they have not decided one or see how well matched they are with their interested major. Additionally, it can provide additional information such as the upper divisional courses (for ICS major ICS 311 or 314), so the user can understand the difficulty of pursuing the major.
* Possible mockup pages:
* Landing Page
* Logged-in Landing Page
* Profile Page
* Create Profile Page
* Login Page
* Major page (template)
* Admin add a new major page
* Admin modify the major page
* Admin list of all major page
* Admin list of profiles Page

### Use Case Ideas ###
Not logged-in: landing page (which allow the user to explore pages for each different major), login page Logged-in: landing page, their major page (if applicable), profile page, log out Admin: landing page, list of major pages, list of profiles based on major (tabs), their major page (if applicable), profile page, log out

### Beyond the Basics ###
After implementing the basic functionality, here are ideas for more advanced features: 
* Students can see the percentage of those who directly go to work after graduation and see the entry pay of it 
* Have graduate student profile column explaining in their opinions on regarding why they chose the major in the undergraduate studies and tips on what kind of people should pursue it 
* Allow students to post their study schedule and tips for the upper divisional courses. An example is like a Math Major student can post tips on how to study for Math 331 Introduction to Analysis
