---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Smallest Construction of the World
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-02-27
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - ICS 314 Responses
---



> Everything in life has order and construction. 

May that be in structural construction to mathematics, no matter where you go there is always structure. For instance, to write out a mathematical induction one has to follow the basic structure: Inductive Hypothesis, Base Case, and the Induction Step. For the last couple of weeks, the ICS 314 class has used Semantic UI to construct websites. The activities that were performed during the last two weeks included "plagiarising" other websites given by the instructors and personal choice. 

### Difficulty found in Semantic UI ###
To begin, learning HTML and CSS was not a difficult task for me as I had prior experience in last summer. While I did not learn it to an extensive level 
I cannot truly speak from past experiences. This was my first time using any form of semantics. While I knew the existence of other frameworks, I had the fear of trying out new things when I initially learned basic HTML and CSS. However, now I have regretted not trying it out prior to taking ICS 314. Semantic UI made website development for me personally easier than using HTML and CSS alone. When I was playing with them over the summer, I had a hard time creating a navigation menu that I ended up reading a total of at least four books about HTML and Java. Using Semantic UI made this tedious task easier. 

Initially, when Professor Johnson, the instructor of ICS 314 Software Engineering I, claimed that Semantic UI is simple, I had a doubt. In my personal experience, whenever a college professor claims a technique to be easy, it is not. However, after trying out Semantic UI, I somewhat understand why Professor claimed it to be simple. 

However, while I claim that I understand with the professor, it does not mean it was not hard. To begin with, there were many challenges that I had to go through. For instance, the three-part WOD required me to balance my time so I can fully comprehend the usage of Semantic UI. The three-part WOD was different from others because instead of being one part per day, it was three in one day WOD. 

### Advancement to the Future ###


Currently, I am creating a website similar to the ICS department review website for calculus levels 1 and 2. Since I did not have any knowledge about Semantic UI the website looks dull compared to the ICS review site. I was having a hard time constructing something fancy. 

However, there are some doubts in my mind. Since Semantic UI makes website development simpler, would it be considered cheating since I am not using HTML and CSS as itself? 
I answer the question by telling myself that this is not cheating, but a short cut method. With the era being digital is necessary to know how to do things that take the shortest time possible. Only fast workers are going to survive this digital era. That is why I tell myself this is not cheating. But rather, a tool to fight for the future. 
