---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Structures and Ideas to Problems"
date: 2020-04-30
labels:
  - Software Engineering 
  - Ethics 
---



A design pattern to explain in simplified terms is a template for a project. For instance, suppose we are working on a certain project with certain requirements given by a certain company. Then design patterns can be the techniques of making the code or the creation and the implementation that meets the standards. Furthermore, design patterns can be broken down into three branches of creational, structural, and behavioral patterns.
<ul>
	<li> Behavioral Pattern: a design pattern that is specifically concerned with communication with objects 
	<li> Structural Pattern: a design pattern that is concerned with the object and class composition 
	<li> Creational Pattern: design patterns that are centered around class instantiation  
</ul>

Design patterns provide possible ideas for the questions but not necessarily the final solution. For instance, suppose you are creating a transportation machine to travel through rough grounds. While the ideal solution is that you can use a machine with tires, you need to make a modification to meet those rough grounds. Under this analogy, we need to remember that while reusing ideas are okay, but at the same time, we need to take the time to expand further. For example, while in this class we have worked codes mainly with JavaScript, there are still many languages available such as C, C++, Python, and etc. By simply following a design pattern, our ability might not be as flexible and might be stubborn to new things or there might be flaws to it. 

For example, both in ICS 111 and ICS 211 we have learned to program with Java. One of the well known Java creational design patterns is the singleton design pattern which allows an instance of one class to be created and available to the class. The advantage of using this is that it saves memory as there is no need to recreate new objects per request. However, it also has its disadvantage as codes tend to be tightly coupled and they hide dependencies instead of showing them. 

For the ICS 314 Software Engineering course with Professor Phillip Johnson, it would be a lie to say that I did not follow some of the patterns. For example, with the final project application, I tried to look up some designs for inspiration. Since the project Textbook Hunt is an application to sell used textbooks, I looked up designs that dealt with market or sell. Additionally, I have also used the Semantic UI React templates for cards, links, and images. However, simply just copy and pasting is not only plagiarism but also immature behavior. For instance, I try to add a personal touch or look up some comments or opinions towards the design. If there are any complaints, I try to think of ways of fixing them.

 However, design patterns in my personal opinion are not something unique to the software engineering world. While we are currently pursuing a certain degree there is no guarantee that we are going to land with a career with that. Life is filled with many surprises. But, just have to remind ourselves that simply following these behaviors are not what a good career worker is 
