---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Pandemedic Lockdown"
date: 2020-04-01
labels:
  - Extra Credit
  - COVID-19
---
 

The year 2020 began with many surprises. The surprises include like Mr. Carlos Ghosn fled Japan to Lebanon by means of hiding himself in a stowaway package area. The sudden pass of basketball superstar Mr. Kobe Bryant or democratic presidential candidate Mr. Joe Biden making a comeback against the other presidential candidate Mr. Bernie Sanders. However, the biggest impact was something that is not visible to the human eye. It started in China and because of the World Health Organization, WHO for short, not being prompt with it affected the many countries across the globe. I am talking about COID-19 or Corona Virus which is a more popular term. The disease that started in China has affected my undergraduate life in terms of courses, work, and personal life. 

### Online Class Transition 

One of the biggest transitions due to the COVID-19 is many things are going virtual. To begin with, many of the courses have gone online such as using video conference applications like Zoom or BlueJeans to replace lectures. Some professors have recorded themselves lecturing and replaced regular lecture time with additional office hours through Zoom or Piazza. 

In my opinion, studying for online courses do not differ from regular on-campus courses because they have the same amount of workload. For example, ICS 314 is not that different online because most of the assignments are on the class website and that we just had to follow the schedule online. The difference to point out is that we do not get to hear Professor Johnson’s energetic mood which helps when you are taking a class with him at 9 AM. 

Despite the COVID-19 leaving a negative impact, there are some benefits to classes going online. To begin with, I can learn at my own pace and timing. Many of the professors have not only extended due dates for some assignments, but they have also uploaded them early on their homepages. Thus, I can start on the assignments earlier and turn it in. Additionally, since the majority of the professors understand that we have to be isolated, they have not been assigning group work. 

However, due to social isolation, there is a feeling that life has become dull. As mentioned previously, I like to be proactive with my work. In other words, I like to get it over as soon and efficiently as possible. Since the professors list all of the work for the week on either Monday or Tuesday, I finish them by Wednesday. After finishing them, there is a feeling of emptiness as there is nothing else to do. True, there are some classwork and projects that are due daily or at the end of the semester. Additionally, the feeling of emptiness increases when you cannot go to the classroom and talk to classmates about classwork. 

Furthermore, because of self-quarantine, many of the exams that were scheduled post-spring break (any dates after April 23) have turned into a take-home exam. While some people may think a take-home exam is beneficial because no professor or teaching assistant is supervising. I think take-home exams are a pain because they are written to be harder than an in-class exam because we have the resources. For example, I am taking an upper divisional math analysis course. To explain it, the course is similar to Calculus 1 and 2, but proof heavy. The take-home exam was our second exam and it was more difficult than the second exam. It was not difficult because of the topics. Rather, it was difficult because unlike in-class exams, minor mistakes are not forgiven easily on a take-home exam. And having a personal anxiety problem and knowing that the exam is harder does not help. 

### Work Field Online Transition 

Similar to the online transition of classes, the majority of my work has transitioned to online. On-campus, I work as a grader, learning assistant which is similar to an assistant teaching assistant in the lower divisional ICS courses, and as a tutor for the math department. Outside of campus, I work as an English to Japanese and vice versa translator and as an amateur designer. The off-campus were not affected heavily from the virus as they were online jobs, to begin with. If there was any difference to point out, the email conversation with my supervisors has increased. 

As a Learning Assistant, LA for short, my job is to help out students with Calculus 2 from the perspective of an undergraduate student. Besides me, there are 5 other LA’s in the Calculus 2 team and what we did is practically similar to most math courses offered in the university. I also do Zoom office hours with my students to help with their homework or study for exams. 

However, similar to online class transitions, there are many downsides I notice. For example, I noticed how my supervisors do not deserve the title of being supervisors. As mentioned previously, for one of my jobs I work as a tutor at the Learning Emporium, emporium for short. My coworker and I were the ones who set up the online environment despite the supervisor having a team for it. This bugged me because according to the job description written on the university’s job website Sece my job was to tutor and they were the ones to set up the online environment.

Additionally, my coworker and I were able to have students sign up to the emporium with no trouble, but whenever the supervisor and her team help out there is trouble. Usually, the trouble comes from the supervisor and her team being unable to use basic tools on a computer. This is sad as her team and I are no different in age and not being able to use technology in the 21st century will take you nowhere in life as it has become a necessity in modern life. 

While it is true that the situation we are going through is strange, that is no excuse to not act professionally. There are times when I email people and notice the cultural difference, but this is beyond the line. Our supervisor has blamed my coworker and me for all the mess caused by her team and has emailed us in a bratty way even though we are professionally emailing her. The behavior that our supervisor has displayed from a third party perspective would be considered rude, racist, immature, and more importantly unprofessional.  

### Community affected due to COVID-19 

Further to add, the virus also affected my social life. Unlike most people, I do not have many friends or family members that I am close with, but while I hate to admit it, I have an addiction to tapioca milk tea drinks. However, because of the virus pandemic, many stores that I usually go to on the weekends such as “Coffee or Tea” or “Cha Tea” have closed its store temporarily. While there are still delivery services, I miss the joy of walking to those stores and doing homework at the cafes. I also like to eat and not being able to have sushi or poke because of the fear of getting the virus tears me apart. 

Additionally, because of Governor David Ige’s order, gyms and parks were forced to close down. This is sad for me because that reduces my reasons to go outside and take a break from work. Do not get me wrong, I understand the need behind self lockdown, but there is also part of me that feels staying cooped inside forever is poison to the body. That is why I decided to create a schedule where I do the dance exercises found on YouTube and also replaced my desk chair with a yoga ball.  

Previously, I mentioned that classwork gets done quickly because of online courses. With that, I have gained more free time because there is no need to dedicate time for transportation. I have been able to draw and do some coloring more, constructed some models that I was not able to before, and started studying for classes that I plan to take next semester since I fear courses are going to be online too next semester. 

We have just finished 25 percent of the year 2020 and it has taken the biggest hit compared to what I have seen in the last 21 years of my life. This pandemic has required me to be alone which is a good thing because there are many things I notice. For instance, having a horrible supervisor gives me the practice on what not to become when I take a leadership position. The emphasis of staying clean is found too. But, I feel like we are far from over with this global pademedic. I feel like the worst that has to come from this has yet to come. 
