

Every community and company has its own standard and policies that a person must follow. For instance, whenever there is an emergency in a company, there are certain protocols that a person must follow. Depending on what the standards are, most of the time they help us to become a better person. This can also be applied to the academic environment. For instance, each major has a standard of writing research papers such as APA, MLA, and IEEE. 

### Beneficial Standards ###

The last couple ICS courses that I have taken at the University of Hawaii had their own individual programming standard. For example, ICS 211 had a checkstyle and ICS 314 has the green check mark on ES lint. From a personal opinion, I think standards can be beneficial since they help us to realize that the world is different. Each company is different and most of the time we sign contracts to promise that we will follow the rules. 
The example of standards that I follow can be found in email. In the Japanese culture, there is a certain structure that emails have to be written in. To summarize the email structure goes: Naming the person’s hierarchy, apologizing for the inconvenience of your email, saying directly what you need, placing the emphasis of your conclusion, and apologizing for the inconvenience again. Despite not being in Japan, this email structure has helped me to get along with the other professors and Teaching Assistants without hurting their feeling and insulting them. 
However, there are some unbeneficial standards that we might have to follow. For instance, in my personal opinion, some religious groups have standards and rules that sound too extreme and unbeneficial. An example is that some religious who practice ethics have loopholes such that it contradicts the ethics standards. For example, one religious group hating other religious groups for believing in a different god. Would that not contradict the ethics of treating your neighbors like yourself? 


### Week of ES Lint ###

After one week of using ES Lint, I must say that I personally like it. Compared to what I have used previously to play around with Javascript and HTML, it is more convenient. The past environment I used required me to jump around that it took a lot of time. ES Lint on the other hand 
However, the complaint I have towards the new environment is the green check mark. Sometimes it bothers me when I comment a function tht
