---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Uniformly Continuous Growth"
date: 2020-05-14
labels:
  - ICS 314
  - Software Engineering 
  - Reflection 
---
With half of 2020 coming to an end, that also implies the 2020 spring semester coming to an end too. Initially, I did not have any strong knowledge about software engineering, but after taking the course I feel more confident. However, while the course taught us essential skills for software engineering, can they be applied for other subjects? The response to that question is yes. One of the major reasons is because Professor Phillip Johnson’s ICS 314 course is not your traditional college lecture course. Instead, it incorporates group work and communication methods that were frequent in primary school but applied for college students. The three main ideas to take back from this course was Project Management, Ethics, and Functional Programming. Despite this course centering on these topics around general software development, they can be taken outside from it.

### Project Management 
 
As the name implies, project management is the functional ability to work within teams. To conclude the semester, Professor Johnson broke us into teams of three to five people and had us use GitHub to manage within our teams. This was essential, especially during the COVID-19 lockdown.To begin with we used issue listings to create a “what to do” list. Once the list is made the members can individually select which to do and work on it. To help create a smooth work pace, each individual was created so that it can be finished within two days. While I cannot say for other teams, my team has used the communication tool, Discord to do frequent communication. As mentioned before, because of COVID-19 state lockdown, we had to adapt to communicate frequently since we cannot meet during regular class sessions.   

However, the techniques mentioned in the previous can be used for other activities. For instance, unlike my peers in my course I am not a Computer Science or Computer Engineering major. I am a Mathematics major, and despite not being the general major group to take this course I can still use the methods learned. For instance, when I take part in research we break up work so it can be done within one to three day span. And when there are issues, we try to communicate within a selected platform and make a selected time and date to meet. Overall, project management tactics were used in this course were not different. 

### Ethics 

Next is one of the hot topics that is brought between different disciplines: ethics. By definition from the Oxford dictionary, “moral principles that govern a person’s behavior or conducting activity“. Especially, with the COVID-19 outbreak going around the United States, many people’s ethics are placed to test. But is ethics found in software engineering different from other disciplines? 

To begin off with the ethics that were communicated in this class were from the Association of Computer Machinery (ACM)’s code of ethics. To help develop an ethical perspective, individually we conducted case studies of different case studies. We checked the morality behind certain actions and the weight of consequences of it. For instance, the case study I did was with Facebook. As many might know based on news articles, Facebook has been receiving many backlashes regarding its morality especially the ones found in ACM guidelines. For instance, it is ethical to have rules established in services, but becomes wrong when bent for others. Since Facebook tends to bend their rules for their "sponsors" by not deleting accounts with questionable claims and statements. 


However, just like project management, the basic idea of ethics does not change with its environment. Every foundation has its rules and conducts, but whenever something does not seem right we have the right to question it. Despite, not changing with the environment, ethics does change with the arrival of a new era. What might seem morally okay might not be in the early 1700s and vice versa. One example is the treatment of different races. Currently, we live in an era where the “majority” believe that judging someone based on their skin color is morally wrong, but that was not the case in the past. The main reason why ethics is a difficult subject is probably because of the change over time. 

### Functional Programming 

One of the early concepts that were taught in this course was "Functional Programming". To begin with, we used the underscore files to find ways to do shortcut operations instead of typing out long codes. This helps us to be faster and smoother with our work pace for this course. 

However, because of the word "programming", many might think what are the ways that this can be applied outside of computer science. Instead of placing emphasis on "programming", let us place an emphasis on "functional". 

Many of the tactics that were learned in ICS 314: Software Engineering can be applied to other fields. Furthermore, even though this course was disrupted by COVID-19, I think it was one of the few courses where I actually learned something. 
